Unfortunately, the novel sputtered, coughed and died. It happened in Matheran, not far from
Bombay, a small hill station with some monkeys but no tea estates. It’s a misery peculiar to
would-be writers. Your theme is good, as are your sentences. Your characters are so ruddy with life
they practically need birth certificates. The plot you’ve mapped out for them is grand, simple and
gripping. You’ve done your research, gathering the facts–historical, social, climatic, culinary–that
will give your story its feel of authenticity. The dialogue zips along, crackling with tension. The
descriptions burst with colour, contrast and telling detail. Really, your story can only be great. But it
all adds up to nothing. In spite of the obvious, shining promise of it, there comes a moment when
you realize that the whisper that has been pestering you all along from the back of your mind is
speaking the flat, awful truth: it won’t work. An element is missing, that spark that brings to life a
real story, regardless of whether the history or the food is right. Your story is emotionally dead,
that’s the crux of it. The discovery is something soul-destroying, I tell you. It leaves you with an
aching hunger.



The three-toed sloth is not well informed about the outside world. On a scale of 2 to 10, where
2 represents unusual dullness and 10 extreme acuity, Beebe (1926) gave the sloths senses of taste,
touch, sight and hearing a rating of 2, and its sense of smell a rating of 3. If you come upon a
sleeping three-toed sloth in the wild, two or three nudges should suffice to awaken it; it will then
look sleepily in every direction but yours. Why it should look about is uncertain since the sloth sees
everything in a Magoo-like blur. As for hearing, the sloth is not so much deaf as uninterested in
sound. Beebe reported that firing guns next to sleeping or feeding sloths elicited little reaction. And
the sloth’s slightly better sense of smell should not be overestimated. They are said to be able to
sniff and avoid decayed branches, but Bullock (1968) reported that sloths fall to the ground clinging
to decayed branches “often.”